This file is just for me to track my progress on this mod specifically.

Things I think I need to do

Make the first new tool. I am going to start with Bone since that was the thing that started this then move on to the different wood species
Make a bone handled copper axe. 
steps for that:
find out how to make the make the model,
find out how to make the texture, I don't think I need to add any new textures to teh game. but maybe a new shape or something
Find out how to chagne the stats of the new tool type. Is it even a new tool at all? How does the game handle the existing bone stone axe vs stick stone axe

Make bone handled tools for all copper tools

Make bone handled tools for all tools of all materials

Figure out how the built in Variants mechanic works in the game so I don't need to do all that again maybe

Make new handle type for the first species of wood. starting with Pine, same stats as sticks
Use variants to make the rest of the tools and give each one different stats. In reality I really only want 3 or 4 tiers

Sticks and pine and maybe some other soft woods are lowest tier
some of the middling woods can be equal to bone handles
a higher handle type for the rest of the woods
And some Peak wood type for fun. 

VS wood types
Acacia
Bald cypress
Birch
Ebony
Kapok
Larch
Maple
Oak
Pine
Purpleheart
Redwood
Walnut
Here are the woods in with the hardness rating, These are technically only surface hardness ratings, not actually what would make a good handle but that is as far as I am going to go
I also don't want to give anything more than an 30% increase in strength since that feels too overpowered
Weakest- minus 15%  
Kapok 240

Nutural - no bonus
Redwood 450
Pine 420
Bald Cypress 510
Larch 830
Stick

Good - 10% bonus
Walnut 1010
Birch 1260
Oak 1290
Bone (I am choosing to put bone here to make it so wood handles have a chance of being better)

Better - 17% bonus
Maple 1450
Acacia 1750
PurpleHeart 1860


Best - 25% its more fun to have one best option
Ebony 3220

Actually Now that I am thinkgin about it they probably should be flat bonuses, not percentge bonuses. Since a 
steel axe with stick handle is 1800 and a metoric iron with an ebony handle would be 1560. I'll think about it

Alright I have decided on what things are the way they are. I need to find out how the game handles the axes now. To see if they are all seperate things or there is something do to with the variants system.
I will start by tring to find all the file and recipes and asking AI for advice

I am done creating bone handles for axes. 
Things that needed to be edited.
The item files for axes, stone and metal
The Recipes files
The lang files

I didn't even need to touch the shape files since they are just being retextured to existing textures.
I am going to do the other tools now. I want to get bone handles for all the tools before I start adding the other wood varients since
setting up them to have a handle variantGroup will be a bigger change that just adding more variants to the groups.

The next tools I am going to do are knives
Then spears
then Shovels
Pickaxes
Propecting Picks
Hammers

I changed my mind. Spears and shovels will be last since they don't do bone handles
I am done adding knife handle with bone.
I am now also done adding the bone handle to the pickaxe, Although I cam up with a better system for setting the durability buff. 
Starting with a 20 durability buff for tier one tools. 
Each buff will be multiplied by the tier of tool it is. 

Neutral - 0 per tier
Good - 20 per tier
Better - 30 per tier
Best - 40 per tier
bad- I still want to do a percent debuf on this one

I have been using google sheets to calculate all the durabilities for each tool. After I add bone handles to all of them I can ensure the durabilities are correct.

I am going to make the changes to the prospecting pick. should be the simplest so far

I have just been working on the google sheet so far. I think I might add more stuff to the falx and sword too but just cosmetically. not affecting the durabilities
I am fighting the urge to make up some way to scale the buff per teir per tool to match something to do with the original tools durabilities. 
This would make tools with less durability get a smaller buff and tool with more durability get a bigger buff while still following the same pattern of the handle buff scaling with tool tier. 
The issue is that only knives and axes had this from the beginning so I don' t have a good starting point. My only guss would be that when it comes to copper axes buff.

I changed my mind I am not going to chagne anything. since the weaker weapons and tools, I would rather buff more and the stronger tools don't really need anything more. Its fine to me that this is a little equalizing.

i want to see if I can do an || or operator when setting up the durabilities by type in the JSON files. It will make the stone and other ones with the same durabilities much nicer. I think it should work maybe but probably not.
AI says it might work if I use the @ symbol. That won't matter until after I am done adding the bones types

I am finally getting around to doing the prospecting picks, THREE files, item Type file, Recipe file, Lang file. Pickaxe file should look almost the same.
mOVING ON to Hammers, Hammers have bone handles now, It tool two tries but it works now

The next one is spears and I don't know exactly how I am going to do this one. since they don't have bone handles. I guess I just go straigt into the wood types
The wood types are going ok. I found out I can use the @ regex with the wild cards there needs to be a "." before the wildcard for it to work together. This changes everythign. 
I need to go back through everything I have done to find those @ symbols at the end.

I have decided to give up on ebony as a higher class than the other handles. 
This would limit it to a true three tier system. Its just cleaner code with out it. Although my mind may change again

THe new three tiers are

normal - 6 options
stick
Redwood
pine
Larch
Kapok
bald cypress

good - 4 options
bone
Walnut
Birch
oak

best - 4 options
maple
Acacia
PurpleHeart
ebony

I don't love it but its cleaner this way, it will be a lot less code to write. 

Add textureBytype back to attributes in spear, and fix some recipe for tuning spear or something, and add the durability changes
my thrown spear is not the right texture. I think it might be because it is an entity but I am not sure. 
WHen I changed the thrown spear texture it broke something else, but I fixed that too.
I also have added all the colors to axes now. Moving on to knives

When I chagned the number of teirs I didn't rework their bonus, so right now it is 0, 20, 30 per tier 
This feels wrong to me. like I should either bring the 20 down to 15 or the 30 to 40 or maybe both. IDK, it should be easyish to adjust later
Spears by far feel the buff the most and hammers feel it the least. which makes sense in my mind.

Knives are done. pickaxes are next
pickaxes and prostectingpicks are done, On to Hammers

I think I am done, done, I mean

I have implmented handle variants on 
axes
hammers
pickaxes
prospectingpicks
knives
shovels
spears
scyths
hoes

that is nine tools types,
I could techincally do more. like snow shovels and falxs and swords 

maybe three more tops? 
I have decided I am going to do three more.
Saws, Falxs, Snow Shovels. ALthough these will not have the durability modifiyers

The saws will be the easiest, especially since I am not changing the durabilities

The falxs will be the hardest since I think I am going to create a new file just for them. yeah

The snow shovels will be difficult as well since they are going to requre a very different recipe than the others

I am putting an original copy of blade.json here incase I need to go backwards
The plan is straight forward. Remove any mention of the falx from the original blade.json and remove anything not related to the falx in 
blade-falx.json

Falx is done, moving on to saw.
I finished the saw and the snow shovel.

I am done adding features to this mod
Now I need to work on packaging it so I can release it.

What are the steps to packaging a mod. Number one, Use the modmaker file. then add the lang file. 
I am reading about code mods. and I have something to say, I really need this to 

basically If I want anybody to use this mod I should have a way to safely remove it. 
Basically I need to have some converter that makes it so if I have some tools that were created 
before applying the mod they get converted into *-stick tools so they can be loaded still after the mod is installed
And maybe someway for all the tools to be stripped of their last tag converting them back to regualar tools 

There might be a way to make this happen with a code mod maybe.

I tried using the mod maker and it didn't work how I expected at all. It tried to generate patches to the files These didn't really work since my changes are so signicant that
Every single line of every file needed to be changed. This means that my mod will not be compatible with any other mods that touch these files. I need to just overwrite the entire file.

